# Slingshot Challenge
(game theory, game design, research, methodology, video games, psychology)

Research on resource sharing in human behavior often require experiments involving humans and not always the participants have the commitment necessary for the tets show good results. Digital research tools with the fun factor bring a playful perspective to the participants during the experiments, contributing to a more efficient immersion of the test subject at the heart of the experience.

A prototype of a casual action game with shooting the target theme was developed for a player interacting with an NPC character or two real players interacting with each other based on the Slingshot game idea. The prototype is designed to operate on mobile devices running the Android operating system. All user interaction with the game was made by taps on the screen of the devices. The problem of resource division was modeled on the basis the prisoner's dilemma economic experiment. In this proptótipo there is only one version of the type singleplayer where player interacts with a character NPC  that has a pre-defined behavioral profile. The profiles available as a resource division are the random behavior, the usual selfless, the usual selfish, the eye-for-eye traditional, eye-for-eye altruistic and selfish eye for an eye .

The game's theme is shooting and the game is called Slingshot Challenge. Basically the player must hit cans of different colors of soda that are stacked on a wall for scoring. There are yellow, green and white cans. The white cans are neutral elements of the game and do not provide case points can be arranged. Each character (either a real player or an NPC) has a color associated with your profile. If a character The hit a can that has the same color of your profile, 01 point is scored for the character A. If the character The hit a can with a color profile equal to the color of another character B, that B receives another character 02 points and character A does not score. The same rule applies to the character B. The game is in turn, a character has right to act in turn and watch the turn of another character. Thus, a character can see the action and score another character.

The game has a number of pre-defined rounds. A round always has two shifts: one shift for each character. The number of rounds can be set up before the game is started via the game's options menu. After all rounds a screen appears with with the final scores of each player and and total final score plus the two players, emphasizing graphically the final score is the sum of the scores of the two players together and is the most important. The game has a graphical perspective FPS where appears a sling center of the screen as an instrument of action and setting the background a wall with two separate groups of cans one on the left and one on the right. The separation between the two groups of cans is enough to point that it is impossible to take down the two groups of cans with one shot. Each group of cans 04 is formed by cans. The difference between the two groups of cans is that a group consists of 02 cans of the same with the character A that is in turn more neutral white 02 cans. The second group of cans is made up of 04 cans of color other character B. If Character A knock the cans in the first group, 02 two will for the character A. If the character The knock the cans of the second group, the character B receive 04 points. There are other games graphics elements. The same goes for when it's time to play the character B.

Importantly, each character has its distinctive setting with its distinct groups of cans. The neighbor is a scenario to another scenario B. When the shift change, the game camera moves to the neighboring setting. A character does not play in the setting of another character B and vice versa. But an A character always watches the other character B play, as the game is in turns and waiting to play on the other. HUD display with the score of each character on the top screen. The other scenarios elements do not affect the gameplay and only aim to contextualize the gameplay with floor picture, sky, homes and trees. The character may in turn try to hit one of two groups of cans that are on the fence, making use of the sling. When you start the player interaction with the sling in turn, appears a projectile in rock format. It also appears that the elastic is attached to the sling and the stone simulating a real slingshot. In the game, unlike many games to hit the target, not a crosshair appears on the scene reporting the final destination of the projectile before its release. The fate of the projectile can be deduced by observing the position of the stone and the rubber band that surrounds the stone before shooting. It is given the freedom to err player hit the cans or try to hit the other elements of the game, for example, wall, floor or heaven itself, however, no point will be computed. A character only have one bullet every turn.

The way the problem was modeled, the prisoner's dilemma is inserted into the gameplay and does not run in the form of questionnaires after each round as it did in the other prototypes. All round advancement of information and round, marking points, character color profile, tin association with the character were always made graphically and sometimes to enhance textual form. This is relevant so you can test the experiment with participants still illiterate, for example, children aged 5 to 7 years. The hud have small circles filled with the character profile color to indicate how many points the character has. Even if the participant does not know already tell, visually is clear from the mass of a color circles a hud versus the other bunch of other circles of other hud who has more points between the two characters.

Were created different versions of the single player mode for each NPC profile there being a total of 6 versions of game mode. Was created these 6 different types of NPC so that it could assess the player's behavior before the npc different strategies and thus may have broad results of decision-making.

The profile of random NPC, as the name implies, it chooses randomly which group cans hit. Selfless profile always hits the high points that give the real player. Selfish profile always hit the group of cans that points to itself. The eye-for-eye traditional profile, always mimics the player's behavior. The eye-for-eye altruistic profile starts hitting the group of cans which gives points for Real Player, if the real player in turn be selfish twice in succession, the NPC takes the eye-for-eye traditional profile. The eye-for-eye selfish profile always starts hitting the group of cans which gives points to himself. If the actual player in turn is selfless twice in succession, the NPC takes the eye-for-eye traditional strategy.

An important observation is that it was configured so that the NPC always hit him a bunch of cans, not allowing the npc could miss the desired target. The multiplayer mode of the game allows the experiment to run with two real people instead of using an NPC character. By using an internet connection, enables the test with these two people in separate environments bringing anonymous or possible direct interactions between the two players.

Samuel Luna Martins, 03/19/2015
Recife-PE, Brazil
